So now let's talk about cloud computing.

So what is cloud computing?

The definition is as such,

cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of compute power,

database storage, application, and other IT resources.

The very important keyword here is on-demand,

you get it when you need it.

And then through a cloud service platform,

you're going to get a pay-as-you-go pricing.

That means that you're only going to pay

for what you requested when you requested it

and as you're using it, when you're done using it,

you're not going to pay anymore.

This is a big shift, right?

Then this is cloud computing.

So we can provision exactly the right type

and size of computing resources you need.

Do you need a big server? We have that for you.

Do you want a small one? We have that too.

Do you want 10? Yes.

Do you want two tomorrow? Of course.

The cloud really allows you to adapt

to the type and size you need.

Then you can access all these resources,

not with 24-hour notice, not with two hours notice,

but instantly, you don't need to order things in advance.

When you want a server, and you'll see this in this course,

you'll have it within seconds.

Then the cloud will also give you a really nice interface

so you can easily access your servers, your storage,

databases, and a set of application services.

Something about the cloud, but in specific AWS,

which is Amazon Web Services owns and maintains

the network-connected hardware required

for these application services while you provision and use

what you need via a web application.

So with this interface,

we'll make all these things a reality.

Now, let's go back to our traditional IT.

So we're changing.

We have our office or our garage,

but now instead of building our own data center

we're going to use the cloud, and in the cloud,

which is also a data center, is just not our data center,

we're going to have servers one, two, three, as we need

and as we go and we're just going to pay for exactly

what we're using.

So you have actually been using the cloud without

even knowing it because it is omnipresent,

but not necessarily visible.

So if you use a web client such as Gmail,

well, for example, it's an email cloud service

and you're going to pay only for the emails you stored.

You're not provisioning servers when you use Gmail,

you just use it.

Maybe you've stored some data on the cloud,

maybe through Dropbox, Google Drive, Google Photos,

iCloud, I don't know.

But with Dropbox, for example, it's a cloud store service,

you're going to put your files on Dropbox.

And originally, fun fact, Dropbox was built on AWS.

So we've been using a cloud storage service as well

without knowing it.

And Netflix, it's huge.

It is built entirely on AWS and it provides you

a cloud service, which is to get video on-demand.

Now, obviously these cloud services are very different

from AWS, but we'll learn what it goes behind these services

and how AWS can help you build

these kinds of cloud services.

So let's go one step further.

There are different kinds of clouds out there.

The first one is called a private cloud and the provider is,

could be Rackspace.

This is cloud services used by a single organization,

they're not exposed to the public,

so you get your own private cloud,

your own private data center,

it's just managed by someone else.

You still have complete control over it

and you have more security for a sensitive application,

which may need some specific business needs.

This is out of scope for this course,

but still good to mention.

Now the public cloud is more interesting.

So three famous cloud providers that are public,

are Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, and Amazon Web Services

that we'll be learning in this course, obviously.

So in this case, the cloud resources own and operated

by a third party cloud service provider

and they're delivered over the Internet

and we'll see the six advantages of using cloud computing.

So in this instance, that means that from AWS,

we'll be able to request what we need when we want it.

And then lastly, which is also important for the exam

is the concept of a hybrid cloud.

So with hybrid, we're actually getting the mix

of private and public.

We're going to keep some servers on premises and we'll

extend some of the capabilities we need into the cloud.

That means that we'll have a hybrid of our own

infrastructure and the AWS cloud.

We'll have control over sensitive assets

in your private infrastructure,

but we'll have the flexibility and the cost effectiveness

of using the public cloud.

Now, five characteristics of cloud computing.

The first one is that it's fully on-demand and self service.

Users, and we'll see this in this course,

we will be able to provision resources

and use them without having anyone from AWS intervene.

Then we'll be having access to a broad network,

the resources will be available over the network,

and it can be accessed in diverse ways

as we'll see in this course.

It'll be multi-tenancy and we'll have resource pooling.

So that means that not just us, but other customers

from AWS can share the same infrastructure

and applications while still having security and privacy.

And then these multiple customers are getting serviced

from the same physical resources.

So here, me, you, and other customers,

we're going to share this entire data center of the cloud.

This gives us rapid elasticity and scalability.

That means that we can automatically and quickly acquire

and dispose resources when we need.

And that means that we can quickly

and easily scale based on demand.

And that is a major advantage of the cloud.

Finally, it's a measured service, so the usage is going

to be measured and we're going to pay exactly

for what we have used.

This is a big shift from on premises.

Now, six advantages.

We're going to trade capital expenses

for operational expenses, so CAPEX or OPEX.

That means that you don't own hardware,

you're going to pay on-demand and that will reduce

your total cost of ownership, your TCO,

and your operational expense.

That means that you don't buy the hardware in advance,

you're just going to rent it from AWS.

Then we're going to benefit from massive economies of scale.

The price is because we are using AWS, not just us,

but other customers and so many people are using it,

then the prices will be reduced by AWS over time because AWS

will be more efficient at running due to its large scale.

We also need to stop guessing capacity.

Before we had to plan and buy servers in advance

and hope that it would meet the capacity,

but now we can actually scale automatically

based on the actual measured usage for our application.

And because everything's on-demand,

we have increased speed and agility.

We can create, operate and do stuff right away,

no blockers for us to be efficient.

And finally, we have a huge cost that we don't need

to have anymore, which is we can stop spending money running

and maintaining data centers.

And this allows a team of say five people

to create a global application in minutes,

thanks to leveraging this AWS global infrastructure

that is going to be worldwide.

Okay. So the problems we've just solved by using the cloud

is that we're more flexible, we're more cost effective,

we are more scalable because we can add resources

as we need to go along,

we're elastic, we can scale out and scale-in when needed,

we also have high availability and fault tolerance

because we don't really on the one data center,

we rely on the fleet of data centers all around the world.

We're more agile, we can rapidly develop,

test and launch software applications,

and although this make the cloud a really no brainer.

So that's it, just for an introduction of how the cloud

is going to be effective.

Now in the next lecture,

we're going to view one step further,

what are the different types of cloud computing.

